# PyMuPDF-Utilities
Various utilities using PyMuPDF

* **anonymize.py** - scan through a PDF and remove all text of all pages. Also erase metadata / XML metadata. This works by eliminating everything enclosed by the string pairs "BT" and "ET" in the pages' `/Contents` object(s). Text appearing in images cannot be removed with this script. This includes images made by the PDF operator syntax: some utilities synthesize text on the basis of elementary drawing commands, i.e. every single letter is created by drawing rectangles, lines and curves. This is probably done as a way to enforce copyright protection. In these cases, the script will not work either.
* **gluepix.py** - extract images from a PDF, also taking care of images with a transparency mask. You may want to look at [this](https://github.com/rk700/PyMuPDF/blob/master/demo/extract_img2.py) demo program, too. It does a similar job, but scans through **all** images, not just the ones referenced by pages. This makes sense when the PDF has structure issues, e.g. a broken page tree.
* **DeDRM-ebook.py** - repeatedly copies a fixed screen area to a PDF page. Can be used to page through an e-book (which might be DRM protected ...) and create a PDF consisting of all its pages in image format - very much like making a full book foto copy. You would start an e-book reader to read a book and then trigger this skript to page through the displayed book making images of each page.
* **layout-analyzer.py** - create an output PDF for a given document with text and graphics layout analysis. Each text and graphics block is surrounded by a rectangle (graphics content is not shown, only some metadata). Output PDF has dimensions of the input's /MediaBox. The input's /CropBox is indicated by a gray background rectangle - see example files in this repo: demo1.pdf and demo1.pdf.pdf.
* **clean-cont.py** - **(requires v1.13.5)** Inspect PDF pages whether they have multiple /Contents objects. If not, we exit immediately. If **yes**, we check if any of them are used by more than one page. If **yes**, we save the the document using the "clean" option and exit. If **not** we join multiple page contents into one, ignore the multiples and save with option "garbage=4".
